    Building Microservices in springboot
In the past, what gets deployed is one entity and it scales as a single entity.
On the code side, you can have multiple modularity or projects but still have a monolith deployed.
But with micro services, what gets deployed is very different
    Todo
-Creating a few microservices.
-Having them communicate with each other.
-Monolith broken to micro services
-Difference between web service and micro service
    What is a Technology
A technology is used to solve a problem.
Technology we will use - Spring Cloud
Spring Cloud: This is one of the robust ways to create micro services.
    Prerequisites
-Java
-Spring Boot
    Movie Catalog API application
What is a web service and micro service

    Steps
step 1 - Create the 3 services
i.e create 3 projects from start.spring.io
dependencies
-Spring Web
    The three projects(services)
spring-catalog-service
movie-info-service
rating-data-service

@RequestMapping("/{userId}")
The data inside the {} tells springboot that it accepts a variable and it works together with @Pathvariable.

configure the port for each of the microservices/projects in the application.properties
-Good practice: always leave port 8080 free

    We have the 3 services/projects set up
The first connection which is calling the movie info api from the catalog service.
    How to make a REST call from your code
RestTemplate: We use it to make rest api calls.
web client: This is the harder way to make api calls.

RestTemplate has a bunch of methods and one of the methods is "getForObject".
getForObject takes two arguments, the url you want to call and the class of the type of object you want to return.
RestTemplate is synchronous.

    How to create a single instance of any object in spring boot and have it shared across multiple classes
-You create a bean
bean: in spring, beans are by default singletons
So anytime you need it, spring just provides it for you.
we do this by using the @bean annotation
create a bean of RestTemplate where you start the spring application

    Web Client
This is an alternative for RestTemplate.
This is used in the reactive way of building spring boot application.
i.e asynchronous spring boot programming.
to use webclient, we will add Spring reactive web dependency.

    Why you should avoid returning lists in APIs
Always return an object.
Serialization converts an object into a byte stream for storage or transmission.
Deserialization converts the byte stream back into the original Java object.

      Understanding Service Discovery
When you build micro services, they need to talk to each-other i.e they discover each-other.
Discovery server: This stands in the middle between the client and the service you want to discover
i.e it helps the client communicate with the service it needs
        Eureka
This is the technology that spring uses for service discovery.
Eureka is one of those projects made open source by netflix.

    Steps tp making Service Discovery(Eureka server) work
-Start up a Eureka server
-Having microservices register(publish) using Eureka client.
-Have microservices locate(consume) using Eureka client.
    You create an Eureka server by creating a spring boot project and adding the Eureka server dependency






